SQL DAY2    Date:03/09/26

DATA:
data  is raw facts or figures without context.
eg: 101, samitha, 50000, vsp

RECORD:
record is called as row or tuple, collection of related fields.
eg: (101,'samitha',50000)

FIELD:
field or attribute is called as columns, smallest unit of data in database.
eg: empname, empaddress, empsal.

DATABASE:
database is a collection of of data(company info)
collection of records stored together.
eg: employee database containing all employee records.

CLIENT-SERVER-ARCH:
Client: the role of the client in client-server arch is to send request to the server and to get response from the server.
Server: server is software the role of the server in client-server arch is to take request from the clients.If the request is valid request it will generate some response and we can
handover that response to client. If the client request is not a valid request it will raise some error status codes.

It has a set of rules and regulations. The role of the protocol in client-server arch is to send request from client to server.

Data Models In DBMS:(explained)

identifiers:
a-z,A-Z,0-9,_,#
identifiers should not start with digit
spaces are not considered
keywords are not considered to declare identifiers
max length to declare identifiers is 15

SQL:
(Structured Query Language)
SQL is a structured Query Language(SQL) Is a Standardized programming language specially designed for managing
and manipulating relational databases. It provides a declarative syntax that allows users to define what data
they want retrieve, insert, update or delete without specifying exactly how database should execute these
operations.

SQL COMMANDS:

DDL: Data Definition Language
defines and modifies the structure of database objects(tables, schemas, indexes).
In DDL we have 5 commands
CREATE :- creates a new database objects such as tables, database, views, or triggers...etc
--> How to create database ?
syntax: CREATE DATABASE database-name;
         or
        CREATE SCHEMA schema-name;

--> How to create table ?
syntax: CREATE TABLE table-name(
        column-name datatype(size) constraint,
        column-name datatype(size) constraint,
        column-name datatype(size) constraint,
        -------------------------------------
        -------------------------------------
        column-name datatype(size) constraint);


ALTER:- by using alter command we can modify the existing table structure.



DROP :- permanently deletes an existing database objects(table, database, index, views) along with its data and structure. 
--> How to drop database/schema ?
syntax: drop database database-name
        or
        drop schema schema-name;

--> How to drop a table ?
syntax: drop table table-name;

TRUNCATE
RENAME

DML: Data Manipulation Language
manages data stored within database objects(insert, update, delete).

DCL: Data Control Language
manages permissions and access control on database objects.

TCL: Transaction Control Language
manages transaction to maintain data integrity.

DQL: Data Query Language
used to fetch/retrieve data from the database.





